CDS-45268-tas-swimlane (#874)
harness/developer-hub: docs/continuous-delivery/onboard-cd/cd-quickstarts/tanzu-app-services-quickstart.md

description: This tutorial shows you how to deploy a publicly available application to your Tanzu Application Services (TAS) in Harness.
sidebar_position: 13
---

This tutorial shows you how to deploy a publicly available application to your Tanzu Application Service (TAS, formerly PCF) space using any [deployment strategy](../../cd-execution/kubernetes-executions/create-a-kubernetes-rolling-deployment.md) in Harness.

:::note
Currently, this feature is behind feature flags `NG_SVC_ENV_REDESIGN`, `CDS_TAS_NG`. Contact [Harness Support](mailto:support@harness.io) to enable this feature. 
:::

## Objectives

You'll learn how to:

* Install and launch a Harness delegate in your target cluster.
* Connect Harness with your TAS account.
* Connect Harness with artifactory.
* Specify the manifest to use the application.
* Set up a TAS pipeline.
* Create and deploy a TAS workflow.

## Important notes

* Harness includes artifact sources for Artifactory, Nexus, Amazon S3, GCR, ECR, ACR, Google Artifact Registry, GitHub Package Registry, Custom registry, and any Docker Registry such as DockerHub. These registries require you to login to your account to access them.

> * Create a TAS project for your new CD pipeline. Ensure that you add the **Continuous Delivery** module to the project. Go to [Create Organizations and Projects](../../../platform/organizations-and-projects/create-an-organization.md) for more information. 

Author: it worked for me locally

You can connect Harness to a TAS cloud platform by adding a TAS connector.
1. Open a Harness project.
2. In **Project Setup**, select **Connectors**, then select **New Connector**.
3. In **Cloud Providers**, select **Tanzu Application Service**. The TAS connector settings appear. 
4. Enter a connector name and select **Continue**.
5. Enter the TAS **Endpoint URL**.
6. In **Authentication**, select:
    1. **Plaintext** and enter the username and password. For password, you can either create a new secret or use an existing one.
    2. **Encrypted** and enter the username and password. You can create a new secret for username and password or use exiting ones.
7. Select **Continue**.
8. In **Connect to the provider**, select **Connect through a Harness Delegate**, and then click **Continue**.
   We don't recommend using the **Connect through Harness Platform** option here simply because you'll need a delegate later for the connection to your TAS environment. Typically, the **Connect through Harness Platform** option is a very quick way to make connections without having to use delegates.
9. In **Delegates Setup**, click **Install new Delegate**. The Delegate wizard appears.

>    [![](./static/kubernetes-cd-quickstart-83.png)](./static/kubernetes-cd-quickstart-83.png)

Author: Engineering says any delegate is ok. They prefer Kubernetes because we have to add some CF CLI commands to the delegate.yaml. I did see the new UI. There is also an option to switch to the old view where this screenshot is relevant. I'll update the image anyway to match the latest UI. Or may be skip few screenshots that don't add a lot of value.

1. In **Specify Environment**, select **New Environment**.  
   Just like service configuration, you can create a new environment or select an existing one. We will create a new one in this tutorial.
2. Enter an environment name and select **Production** or **Pre-Production** environment type.
3. Override the service configuration in **Environment Overrides** if you want to override the defined service properties.
4. Select **Save**.
5. In **Specify Infrastructure**, select **New Infrastructure**.
6. Enter a name, and verify if **Tanzu Application Type** deployment type is selected.
7. Select the TAS connector you created [here](#connect-to-a-tas-provider).
8. Select **Organization**.
9. Select **Space**.
10. Select **Allow simultaneous deployment on the same infrastructre** if you want to deploy multiple deployments in this infrastructure.
    
    ![](static/tas-infra-details.png)

11. Select **Save**.

## Add a deployment step

Now you can select the [deployment strategy](../../cd-deployments-category/deployment-concepts.md) for this stage of the pipeline.

```mdx-code-block
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
```
```mdx-code-block
<Tabs>

>   <TabItem value="Rolling" label="Rolling" default>

Reviewer: I think this need a brief summary of what a rolling deployment is in TAS.

1. In Execution Strategies, select **Rolling**, and then click **Use Strategy**.
2. The **Rollout Deployment** step is added. 
   
   ![](./static/rolling-deployment.png)

3. Add the step to define **Step Parameters**.
    1. **Name** - Edit the deployment step name.
    2. **Timeout** - Define the timeout interval.
    3. **Additional Routes** - Enter additional routes to add routes other than the ones defines in the manifests.
4. Select **Apply Changes**.
5. Add a **Rolling Rollback** step to your stage if you want to roll back the workloads deployed in this step.
6. Select **Save**.

Now the pipeline stage is complete and you can deploy.

```mdx-code-block
  </TabItem>

>   <TabItem value="Blue Green" label="Blue Green">

Reviewer: The problem here is that you need routes for Blue Green to work and we didn't tell them to add a manifest with routes in it.

So, we could add that here.

I describe it in the FG docs: https://developer.harness.io/docs/first-gen/continuous-delivery/pcf-deployments/create-a-blue-green-pcf-deployment#step-1-specify-the-tas-service-routes

There's actually a lot you can borrow from that doc.

I think this need a brief summary of what a BG deployment is in TAS.

    5. **Additional Routes** - Enter additional routes if you want to add routes other than the ones defines in the manifests.
    6. **Temporarty Routes** - Add temporary routes in addition to additional routes.
    7. Select **Apply Changes**.

4. Select the **App Resize** step to define **Step Parameters**.
    1. **Name** - Edit the deployment step name.
    2. **Timeout** - Define the timeout interval.
    3. **Total Instances** - Enter the number or percentage of instances you want to keep.
    4. **Desired Instances - Old Version** - Enter the number or percentage of old instances you want to keep.
    5. Select **Apply Changes**.

5. Select the **Swap Routes** step to define **Step Parameters**.
    1. **Name** - Edit the deployment step name.
    2. **Timeout** - Define the timeout interval.
    3. **Downsize Old Application** - Select this option to down size older applications.
    4. Select **Apply Changes**.
   
6. Add a **App Rollback** step to your stage if you want to roll back the workloads deployed in this step.
7. Select **Save**.

Now the pipeline stage is complete and you can deploy.

```mdx-code-block
  </TabItem>

>   <TabItem value="Canary" label="Canary">

Reviewer: I think this need a brief summary of what a canary deployment is in TAS.

See https://developer.harness.io/docs/first-gen/continuous-delivery/pcf-deployments/create-a-canary-pcf-deployment#review-app-resizing-in-canary-deployments

    5. **Additional Routes** - Enter additional routes if you want to add routes other than the ones defines in the manifests.
    6. Select **Apply Changes**.

4. Select the **App Resize** step to define **Step Parameters**.
    1. **Name** - Edit the deployment step name.
    2. **Timeout** - Define the timeout interval.
    3. **Total Instances** - Enter the number or percentage of instances you want to keep.
    4. **Desired Instances - Old Version** - Enter the number or percentage of old instances you want to keep.
    5. Select **Apply Changes**.
   
5. Add a **App Rollback** step to your stage if you want to roll back the workloads deployed in this step.
6. Select **Save**.

Now the pipeline stage is complete and you can deploy.

```mdx-code-block
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="Black Canvas" label="Black Canvas">
```
1. In Execution Strategies, select **Black Canvas**, and then click **Use Strategy**.
2. Select **Add Step** to add steps from the **Steps Library**. 
3. Select each step and define **Step Parameters**.
4. Select **Apply Changes**.
5. Select **Save**.
   
```mdx-code-block
  </TabItem>    
</Tabs>
```

> ## Step 5: Deploy and review

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Deploy and review
```

---
title: Tanzu Application Services deployment tutorial 
description: This tutorial shows you how to deploy a publicly available application to your Tanzu Application Service (TAS) by using Harness.
sidebar_position: 13
---

This tutorial shows you how to deploy a publicly available application to your Tanzu Application Service (TAS, formerly PCF) space by using any [deployment strategy](../../cd-deployments-category/deployment-concepts.md) in Harness.

:::note
Currently, this feature is behind feature flags `NG_SVC_ENV_REDESIGN` and `CDS_TAS_NG`. Contact [Harness Support](mailto:support@harness.io) to enable this feature. 
:::

## Objectives

You'll learn how to:

* Install and launch a Harness delegate in your target cluster.
* Connect Harness with your TAS account.
* Connect Harness with a public image hosted on Artifactory.

> * Specify the manifest to use for the app.

Author: done

   Create-Service-Push   1.3.2     create-service-push, cspush   Works in the same manner as cf push, except that it will create services defined in a services-manifest.yml file first before performing a cf push.
   ``` 
:::note
The CF Command script does not require `cf login`. Harness logs in using the credentials in the TAS Cloud Provider set up in the infrastructure definition for the workflow executing the CF Command.
:::

## Create the deploy stage

Pipelines are collections of stages. For this tutorial, we'll create a new pipeline and add a single stage.

1. In your Harness project, select **Pipelines**, select **Deployments**, then select **Create a Pipeline**.
2. Enter the name **TAS Quickstart** and click **Start**.
   
   ![](./static/create-tas-pipeline.png)

   Your pipeline appears.
3. Click **Add Stage** and select **Deploy**.
4. Enter the stage name **Deploy TAS Service**, select the **Tanzu Application Services** deployment type, and select **Set Up Stage**.
   
   ![](./static/deploy-tas-service.png)

   The new stage settings appear. 

## Create a Harness service

> Harness services represent your microservices or applications. You can add the same service to as many stages as you need. Services contain your artifacts, manifests, config files, and variables. For more information, go to [Services and environments overview](https://developer.harness.io/docs/continuous-delivery/onboard-cd/cd-concepts/services-and-environments-overview).

Author: it is config files

    5. Select **Apply Changes**.

5. Add a **Tanzu Command** step to your stage if you want to execute custom Tanzu commands in this step. 
    1. **Timeout** - Set how long you want the Harness delegate to wait for the TAS cloud to respond to API requests before timeout.
    2. **Script** - Select one of the following options.
        - **File Store** - Select this option to choose a script from **Project**, **Organization**, or **Account**.
        - **Inline** - Select this option to enter a script inline.
    3. Select **Apply Changes**.
   
6. Add an **App Rollback** step to your stage if you want to roll back to an older version of the application in case of deployment failure.
7. Select **Save**.

Now the pipeline stage is complete and you can deploy.

```mdx-code-block
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="Canary" label="Canary">
```

> The TAS canary deployment is a phased approach to deploy application instances gradually, ensuring the stability of a small percentage of instances before rolling out to your desired instance count. With Canary Deployment, all nodes in a single environment are incrementally updated in small phases. You can add verification steps as needed to proceed to the next phase.

Reviewer 2: Is it Canary Deployment or canary deployment?

Author: canary deployment. Made the change.

    4. **Desired Instances - Old Version** - Set the number or percentage of instances for the previous version of the application you want to keep. If this field is left empty, the desired instance count will be the difference between the maximum possible instance count (from the manifest or match running instances count) and the number of new application instances.
    5. Select **Apply Changes**.
5. Add more **App Resize** steps to perform gradual deployment.
6. Add a **Tanzu Command** step to your stage if you want to execute custom Tanzu commands in this step. 
    1. **Timeout** - Set how long you want the Harness delegate to wait for the TAS cloud to respond to API requests before timeout.
    2. **Script** - Select one of the following options.
        - **File Store** - Select this option to choose a script from **Project**, **Organization**, or **Account**.
        - **Inline** - Select this option to enter a script inline.
    3. Select **Apply Changes**.
7. Add an **App Rollback** step to your stage if you want to rollback to an older version of the application in case of deployment failure.
8. Select **Save**.

> Now the pipeline stage is complete and you can deploy.

Reviewer 2: Now the pipeline stage is complete and can be deployed.

```mdx-code-block
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="Blue/Green" label="Blue/Green">
```

> Harness TAS blue/green deployments use the route(s) in the TAS manifest and a temporary route you specify in the deployment configuration.

Reviewer 2: Can we say blue or green instead of blue/green? (global)

Author: it is blue/green only

Once the deployment is successful, the **Swap Routes** configuration switches the networking routing, directing production traffic (green) to the new application and stage traffic (blue) to the old application.

1. In Execution Strategies, select **Blue/Green**, and then click **Use Strategy**.
2. The blue/green execution steps are added. 
   
   ![](./static/bg-deployment.png)

3. Select the **BG App Setup** step to define **Step Parameters**.
    1. **Name** - Edit the deployment step name.
    2. **Timeout** - Set how long you want the Harness delegate to wait for the TAS cloud to respond to API requests before timeout.
    3. **Instance Count** - Select whether to **Read from Manifest** or **Match Running Instances**.  
       The **Match Running Instances** setting can be used after your first deployment to override the instances in your manifest.
    4. **Existing Versions to Keep** - Enter the number of existing versions you want to keep. This is to roll back to a stable version if the deployment fails.
    5. **Additional Routes** - Add additional routes in addition to the routes added in the TAS manifest.
   

>        Additional routes has two uses in blue/green deployments.

Reviewer 2: Additional routes have two uses in blue or green deployments.

       * Select the routes that you want to map to the application in addition to the routes already mapped in the application in the manifest in your Harness service.
       * You can also omit routes in the manifest in your Harness service, and select them in **Additional Routes**. The routes selected in **Additional Routes** will be used as the final (green) routes for the application.

>     6. **Temporarty Routes** - Add temporary routes in addition to additional routes.

Reviewer 2: Temporary

    2. **Timeout** - Set how long you want the Harness delegate to wait for the TAS cloud to respond to API requests before timeout.
    3. **Downsize Old Application** - Select this option to down size older applications.
    4. Select **Apply Changes**.
6. Add a **Tanzu Command** step to your stage if you want to execute custom Tanzu commands in this step. 
    1. **Timeout** - Set how long you want the Harness delegate to wait for the TAS cloud to respond to API requests before timeout.
    2. **Script** - Select one of the following options.
        - **File Store** - Select this option to choose a script from **Project**, **Organization**, or **Account**.
        - **Inline** - Select this option to enter a script inline.
    3. Select **Apply Changes**.   
7. Add a **Swap Rollback** step to your stage if you want to rollback to an older version of the application in case of deployment failure.

   When **Swap Rollback** is used in a deployment's **Rollback Steps**, the application that was active before the deployment is restored to its original state with the same instances and routes it had before the deployment.

   The failed application  is deleted.
8. Select **Save**.

> Now the pipeline stage is complete and you can deploy.

Reviewer 2: Now the pipeline stage is complete and can be deployed. OR Now the pipeline stage is complete and ready to be deployed.

2. The rolling deploy step is added. 
   
   ![](./static/rolling-deployment.png)

3. Select the **Rolling Deploy** step to define **Step Parameters**.
    1. **Name** - Edit the deployment step name.
    2.  **Timeout** - Set how long you want the Harness delegate to wait for the TAS cloud to respond to API requests before timeout.
    3.  **Additional Routes** - Add additional routes in addition to the routes added in the TAS manifest.
4. Add a **Tanzu Command** step to your stage if you want to execute custom Tanzu commands in this step. 
    1. **Timeout** - Set how long you want the Harness delegate to wait for the TAS cloud to respond to API requests before timeout.
    2. **Script** - Select one of the following options.
        - **File Store** - Select this option to choose a script from **Project**, **Organization**, or **Account**.
        - **Inline** - Select this option to enter a script inline.
    3. Select **Apply Changes**.   
5. Add a **Rolling Rollback** step to your stage if you want to rollback to an older version of the application in case of deployment failure.
6. Select **Save**.

> Now the pipeline stage is complete and you can deploy.

Reviewer 2: Now the pipeline stage is complete and can be deployed.

```mdx-code-block
  </TabItem>    
</Tabs>
```

## Deploy and review

1. Click **Save** **> Save Pipeline**, then select **Run**.
   Now you can select the specific artifact to deploy.
2. Select a **Primary Artifact**.
3. Select a **Tag**.
4. Select the following **Infrastructure** parameters.
    1. **Connector**
    2. **Organization**
    3. **Space**
5. Click **Run Pipeline**. Harness will verify the pipeline and then run it.
   You can see the status of the deployment, pause or abort it.

6. Toggle **Console View** to watch the deployment with more detailed logging.  

> The deployment was successful.

Reviewer 2: Some step or message that indicates that the deployment was successful? Can we rephrase this statement?

In your project's **Deployments**, you can see the deployment listed.

> ## Next Steps

Reviewer 2: Next steps

   App Autoscaler        2.0.295   update-autoscaling-limits     Updates autoscaling instance limits for the app
   Create-Service-Push   1.3.2     create-service-push, cspush   Works in the same manner as cf push, except that it will create services defined in a services-manifest.yml file first before performing a cf push.
   ``` 
:::note
The CF Command script does not require `cf login`. Harness logs in using the credentials in the TAS cloud provider set up in the infrastructure definition for the workflow executing the CF Command.
:::

## Create the deploy stage

Pipelines are collections of stages. For this tutorial, we'll create a new pipeline and add a single stage.

1. In your Harness project, select **Pipelines**, select **Deployments**, then select **Create a Pipeline**.

   Your pipeline appears.
2. Enter the name **TAS Quickstart** and click **Start**.
   
   ![](./static/create-tas-pipeline.png)

3. Click **Add Stage** and select **Deploy**.
4. Enter the stage name **Deploy TAS Service**, select the **Tanzu Application Services** deployment type, and select **Set Up Stage**.
   
   The new stage settings appear. 
   
   ![](./static/deploy-tas-service.png) 

> ## Create a Harness service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create the Harness TAS service
```

3. In **Artifactory Repository**, click **New Artifactory Connector**.
4. Enter a name for the connector, such as **JFrog**, then select **Continue**.
5. In **Details**, in **Artifactory Repository URL**, enter `https://harness.jfrog.io/artifactory/`.
6. In **Authentication**, select **Anonymous**, and select **Continue**.
   
   ![](./static/artifactory-repo-connector.png)

7. In **Delegates Setup**, select **Only use Delegate with all of the following tags** and enter the name of the delegate created in [connect to a TAS provider (step 8)](#connect-to-a-tas-provider).
8. Select **Save and Continue**
9.  After the test connection succeeds, select **Continue**.
10. In **Artifact Details**, enter the following details:
    1.  Enter an **Artifact Source Name**.
    2.  Select **Generic** or **Docker** repository format.
    3.  Select a **Repository** where the artifact is located.
    4.  Enter the name of the folder or repository where the artifact is located.
    5.  Select **Value** to enter a specific artifact name. You can also select **Regex** and enter a tag regex to filter the artifact.
11. Select **Submit**.

> ## Define your target environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Define the TAS target environment
```

The target space is your TAS space. This is where you will deploy your application.

1. In **Specify Environment**, select **New Environment**.  
2. Enter the name **TAS tutorial** and select **Pre-Production**.
4. Select **Save**.
5. In **Specify Infrastructure**, select **New Infrastructure**.
6. Enter a name, and then verify that the selected deployment type is **Tanzu Application Type**.
7. Select the [TAS connector](#connect-to-a-tas-provider) you created earlier.
8. In **Organization**, select the TAS org in which want to deploy.
9. In **Space**, select the TAS space in which you want to deploy.
    
    ![](./static/tas-infra-details.png)

11. Select **Save**.

> ## Add a deployment step

Reviewer: Making this suggestion because the steps are added automatically. They don't have to add anything.

    5. Select **Apply Changes**.
5. Add more **App Resize** steps to perform gradual deployment.
6. Add a **Tanzu Command** step to your stage if you want to execute custom Tanzu commands in this step. 
    1. **Timeout** - Set how long you want the Harness delegate to wait for the TAS cloud to respond to API requests before timeout.
    2. **Script** - Select one of the following options.
        - **File Store** - Select this option to choose a script from **Project**, **Organization**, or **Account**.
        - **Inline** - Select this option to enter a script inline.
    3. Select **Apply Changes**.
7. Add an **App Rollback** step to your stage if you want to rollback to an older version of the application in case of deployment failure.
8. Select **Save**.

Now the pipeline stage is complete and can be deployed.

```mdx-code-block
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="Blue/Green" label="Blue/Green">
```

> Harness TAS blue/green deployments use the route(s) in the TAS manifest and a temporary route you specify in the deployment configuration.

Reviewer: we use "blue green".

    ```
    namespace/harness-delegate-ng unchanged
    clusterrolebinding.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/harness-delegate-cluster-admin unchanged
    secret/cd-doc-delegate-account-token created
    deployment.apps/cd-doc-delegate created
    service/delegate-service configured
    role.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/upgrader-cronjob unchanged
    rolebinding.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/upgrader-cronjob configured
    serviceaccount/upgrader-cronjob-sa unchanged
    secret/cd-doc-delegate-upgrader-token created
    configmap/cd-doc-delegate-upgrader-config created
    cronjob.batch/cd-doc-delegate-upgrader-job created
    ```

   8. Select **Verify** to make sure that the delegate is installed properly.
   
   </details>

9.  In **Set Up Delegates**, select the **Connect using Delegates with the following Tags** option and enter your delegate name.
10. Select **Save and Continue**.
11. Once the test connection succeeds, select **Finish**. The connector now appears in the **Connectors** list.

## Install CF CLI on your Harness delegate

After the delegate pods are created, you must edit your Harness delegate YAML to install CF CLI v7, `autoscaler`, and `Create-Service-Push` plugins.

:::note

> Currently, CF CLI v7 support is behind the feature flag `CF_CLI7`. Contact [Harness Support](mailto:support@harness.io) to enable CF CLI v7 support. 

Author: Done

   
   The basic app setup configuration uses your manifest in Harness TAS to set up your application.

    1. **Name** - Edit the deployment step name.
    2. **Timeout** - Set how long you want the Harness delegate to wait for the TAS cloud to respond to API requests before timeout.
    3. **Instance Count** - Select whether to **Read from Manifest** or **Match Running Instances**.  
       The **Match Running Instances** setting can be used after your first deployment to override the instances in your manifest.
    4. **Existing Versions to Keep** - Enter the number of existing versions you want to keep. This is to roll back to a stable version if the deployment fails.
    5. **Additional Routes** - Enter additional routes if you want to add routes other than the ones defined in the manifests.
    6. Select **Apply Changes**.

4. Select the **App Resize** step to define **Step Parameters**.
    1. **Name** - Edit the deployment step name.
    2. **Timeout** - Set how long you want the Harness delegate to wait for the TAS cloud to respond to API requests before timeout.
    3. **Total Instances** - Set the number or percentage of running instances you want to keep.

>     4. **Desired Instances - Old Version** - Set the number or percentage of instances for the previous version of the application you want to keep. By default, the application will downsize to the same number as the number of new application instances.

Reviewer 3: `By default, the application will downsize to the same number as the number of new application instances` 
This is not the actual logic, it is:
If left empty, the count will be the diff. between the max instance count possible(from manifest/match running instance) and the number of new application instances.
^Same for all strategies

    5. Select **Apply Changes**.
5. Add more **App Resize** steps to perform gradual deployment.
6. Add a **Tanzu Command** step to your stage if you want to execute custom Tanzu commands in this step. 
    1. **Timeout** - Set how long you want the Harness delegate to wait for the TAS cloud to respond to API requests before timeout.
    2. **Script** - Select one of the following options.
        - **File Store** - Select this option to choose a script from **Project**, **Organization**, or **Account**.
        - **Inline** - Select this option to enter a script inline.
    3. Select **Apply Changes**.
7. Add an **App Rollback** step to your stage if you want to rollback to an older version of the application in case of deployment failure.
8. Select **Save**.

Now the pipeline stage is complete and you can deploy.

```mdx-code-block
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="Blue/Green" label="Blue/Green">
```
Harness TAS blue/green deployments use the route(s) in the TAS manifest and a temporary route you specify in the deployment configuration.

> The blue/green deployment deploys the applications using the temporary route first using the **App Setup** configuration. Next, in the **App Resize** configuration, Harness maintains the number of instances at 100% of the `instances` specified in the TAS manifest.

Reviewer 3: This is not 100% always, we populate 100% by default if we select strategy, but it depends on the number defined by the user

    5. Select **Apply Changes**.
5. Select the **Swap Routes** step to define **Step Parameters**.
    1. **Name** - Edit the deployment step name.
    2. **Timeout** - Set how long you want the Harness delegate to wait for the TAS cloud to respond to API requests before timeout.
    3. **Downsize Old Application** - Select this option to down size older applications.
    4. Select **Apply Changes**.
6. Add a **Tanzu Command** step to your stage if you want to execute custom Tanzu commands in this step. 
    1. **Timeout** - Set how long you want the Harness delegate to wait for the TAS cloud to respond to API requests before timeout.
    2. **Script** - Select one of the following options.
        - **File Store** - Select this option to choose a script from **Project**, **Organization**, or **Account**.
        - **Inline** - Select this option to enter a script inline.
    3. Select **Apply Changes**.   
7. Add a **App Rollback** step to your stage if you want to rollback to an older version of the application in case of deployment failure.
   

>    The rollback step in the blue/green deployment contains two default steps, **Swap Routes** and **App Rollback**.

Reviewer 3: This was CG behaviour, in NG we only have `Swap Rollback` step which will do the rollback for BG strategy. We don't use `App Rollback` for BG in NG

---
title: Tanzu Application Services deployment tutorial 
description: This tutorial shows you how to deploy a publicly available application to your Tanzu Application Service (TAS) in Harness.
sidebar_position: 13
---

This tutorial shows you how to deploy a publicly available application to your Tanzu Application Service (TAS, formerly PCF) space using any [deployment strategy](../../cd-deployments-category/deployment-concepts.md) in Harness.

:::note
Currently, this feature is behind feature flags `NG_SVC_ENV_REDESIGN`, `CDS_TAS_NG`. Contact [Harness Support](mailto:support@harness.io) to enable this feature. 
:::

## Objectives

You'll learn how to:

* Install and launch a Harness delegate in your target cluster.
* Connect Harness with your TAS account.

> * Connect Harness with a public image hosted on artifactory.

Author: Capitalised A in artifactory

   
   ```
   - name: INIT_SCRIPT  
   value: |
       apt-get install wget
       wget -q -O - https://packages.cloudfoundry.org/debian/cli.cloudfoundry.org.key | apt-key add -
       echo "deb https://packages.cloudfoundry.org/debian stable main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/cloudfoundry-cli.list
       apt-get update
       apt-get install cf7-cli
   
       # autoscaler plugin
       # download and install pivnet
       wget -O pivnet github.com/pivotal-cf/pivnet-cli/releases/download/v0.0.55/pivnet-linux-amd64-0.0.55 && chmod +x pivnet && mv pivnet /usr/local/bin;
       pivnet login --api-token=<replace with api token>

       # download and install autoscaler plugin by pivnet
       pivnet download-product-files --product-slug='pcf-app-autoscaler' --release-version='2.0.295' --product-file-id=912441
       cf install-plugin -f autoscaler-for-pcf-cliplugin-linux64-binary-2.0.295

       # install Create-Service-Push plugin from community
       cf install-plugin -r CF-Community "Create-Service-Push"

       # verify cf version
       cf --version

       # verify plugins
       cf plugins
   ```
   

> 4. Apply the profile to the delegate profile and check logs.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
4. Apply the profile to the delegate profile and check the logs.
```

   ```  

## Create the deploy stage

Pipelines are collections of stages. For this tutorial, we'll create a new pipeline and add a single stage.

1. In your Harness project, select **Pipelines**, select **Deployments**, then select **Create a Pipeline**.
2. Enter the name **TAS Quickstart** and click **Start**.
   
   ![](./static/create-tas-pipeline.png)

   Your pipeline appears.
3. Click **Add Stage** and select **Deploy**.
4. Enter the stage name **Deploy TAS Service**, select the **Tanzu Application Services** deployment type, and select **Set Up Stage**.
   
   ![](./static/deploy-tas-service.png)

   The new stage settings appear. 

## Create a Harness service

Harness services represent your microservices or applications. You can add the same service to as many stages as you need. Services contain your artifacts, manifests, config files, and variables. For more information, go to [Services and environments overview](https://developer.harness.io/docs/continuous-delivery/onboard-cd/cd-concepts/services-and-environments-overview).

### Create a new service

1. Select the **Service** tab, then select **Add Service**.  
2. Give the service the name **TAS**.  

> Once you have created a service, it is persistent and can be used throughout the stages of this or any other pipeline in the project.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Services are persistent and can be used throughout the stages of this pipeline or any other pipeline in the project.
```
("pipeline" is not required but the original construction sometimes needs to be read twice.)

1. In **Service Definition**, in **Deployment Type**, verify if **Tanzu Application Services** is selected.

### Add the manifest

1. In **Manifests**, select **Add Manifest**.  
   Harness uses **TAS Manifest**, **Vars**, and **AutoScaler** manifest types for defining TAS applications, instances, and routes.  
   You can use one TAS manifest and one autoscaler manifest only. You can use unlimited vars file manifests. 

   ![](./static/tas-manifest-type.png)
 
2. Select **TAS Manifest** and select **Continue**.
3. In **Specify TAS Manifest Store**, select **Harness** and select **Continue**.
4. In **Manifest Details**, enter a manifest name. For example, `nginx`.
5. Select **File/Folder Path**. 
6. In **Create or Select an Existing Config file**, select **Project**. This is where we will create the manifest.

>     1. Select **New**, then select **New Folder** and enter a folder name, then select **Create**.
>     2. Select the new folder, select **New**, then select **New File** and enter a file name. For example, `manifest`.
>     3. Enter the following in the `manifest` file, then click **Save**.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    1. Select **New**, select **New Folder**, enter a folder name, and then select **Create**.
    2. Select the new folder, select **New**, select **New File**, and then enter a file name. For example, enter `manifest`.
    3. Enter the following in the `manifest` file, and then click **Save**.
```

       
       ```
       applications:
       - name: ((NAME))
       health-check-type: process
       timeout: 5
       instances: ((INSTANCE))
       memory: 750M
       routes:
         - route: ((ROUTE))
       ```
7. Select **Apply Selected**.
   
   You can add only one `manifest.yaml` file.  

8. Select **Vars.yaml path** and repeat Steps 6.1 to 6.2 to create a `vars` file and enter follwoing information.
   
   ```
   NAME: harness_<+service.name>
   INSTANCE: 1
   ROUTE: harness_<+service.name>_<+infra.name>.apps.tas-harness.com
   ```
9.  Select **Apply Selected**.
    
   You can add any number of `vars.yaml` files.  

> 11. Select **AutoScaler.yaml** and repeat step 6.1 to 6.2 to create an `autoscaler` file and enter the following information.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
11. Select **AutoScaler.yaml** and repeat steps 6.1 and 6.2 to create an `autoscaler` file. Then, enter the following information:
```

      max: 2
    rules:
    - rule_type: "http_latency"
      rule_sub_type: "avg_99th"
      threshold:
        min: 100
        max: 200
    scheduled_limit_changes:
    - recurrence: 10
      executes_at: "2032-01-01T00:00:00Z"
      instance_limits:
        min: 1
        max: 2
    ```
12. Select **Apply Selected**.
    
    You can add only one `autoscaler.yaml` file. 

13. Select **Submit**.

### Add the artifact for deployment

1. In **Artifacts**, select **Add Artifact Source**.
2. In **Specify Artifact Repository Type**, select **Artifactory**, and select **Continue**.
3. In **Artifactory Repository**, click **New Artifactory Connector**.
4. Enter a name for the connector, such as **JFrog**, then select **Continue**.
5. In **Details**, in **Artifactory Repository URL**, enter `https://harness.jfrog.io/artifactory/`.
6. In **Authentication**, select **Anonymous**, and select **Continue**.
   
   ![](./static/artifactory-repo-connector.png)

7. In **Delegates Setup**, select **Only use Delegate with all of the following tags** and enter the name of the delegate created in [connect to a TAS provider (step 8)](#connect-to-a-tas-provider).
8. Select **Save and Continue**

> 9.  Once the test connection succeeds, select **Continue**.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
9.  After the test connection succeeds, select **Continue**.
```

10. In **Artifact Details** enter the following details.

>     1.  Enter an **Artifact Source Name**

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    1.  Enter an **Artifact Source Name**.
```
(Prefer "In **Artifact Source Name**, enter a name for the artifact source. That way, you avoid using the UI element's name to spell out an instruction.)

    2.  Select **Generic** or **Docker** repository format.
    3.  Select a **Repository** where the artifact is located.
    4.  Enter the name of the folder or repository where the artifact is located.
    5.  Select **Value** to enter a specific artifact name. You can also select **Regex** and enter a tag regex to filter the artifact.

>     6.  Enter the image tag artifact name.

Reviewer 4: What's the image tag artifact name? Is that what it's called? Or is there a better way to write it? Three adjectives is one too many, no?

11. Select **Submit**.

## Define your target environment

The target space is your TAS space. This is where you will deploy your application.

1. In **Specify Environment**, select **New Environment**.  

> 2. Enter the environment name **TAS tutorial** and select **Pre-Production**.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. Enter the name **TAS tutorial** and select **Pre-Production**.
```
The env does not exist yet.

4. Select **Save**.
5. In **Specify Infrastructure**, select **New Infrastructure**.

> 6. Enter a name, and verify if **Tanzu Application Type** deployment type is selected.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
6. Enter a name, and then verify that the selected deployment type is **Tanzu Application Type**.
```
("Application type deployment type" is a mouthful. Does my suggestion work?)

Author: should we use and and then together. In my previous orgs, I used to use either and or ',then'. What do you think?

7. Select the [TAS connector](#connect-to-a-tas-provider) you created earlier.

> 8. In **Organization**, select the TAS org where you want to deploy.

Reviewer 4: General comment about "where": check whether "in which" is better. In this case, an organization is not a location. It's a container. "In which" seems appropriate. I was tempted to make the same observation when I read "repository where" earlier. 
Also, the sentence seems to end abruptly. Can we write "select the TAS org that you want to use for the deployment"? 
(apply globally, including the next step)

9. In **Space**, select the TAS space where you want to deploy.
    
    ![](./static/tas-infra-details.png)

11. Select **Save**.

## Add a deployment step

Now you can select the [deployment strategy](../../cd-deployments-category/deployment-concepts.md) for this stage of the pipeline.

```mdx-code-block
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
```
```mdx-code-block
<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="Basic" label="Basic">
```

> The TAS workflow performing a basic deployment takes your Harness TAS service and deploys it on your TAS infrastructure definition. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The TAS workflow for performing a basic deployment takes your Harness TAS service and deploys it on your TAS infrastructure definition. 
```
Correct? I felt something was missing. Ignore if I did not parse it correctly.

4. Select the **App Resize** step to define **Step Parameters**.
    1. **Name** - Edit the deployment step name.
    2. **Timeout** - Set how long you want the Harness delegate to wait for the TAS cloud to respond to API requests before timeout.
    3. **Total Instances** - Set the number or percentage of running instances you want to keep.
    4. **Desired Instances - Old Version** - Set the number or percentage of instances for the previous version of the application you want to keep. By default, the application will downsize to the same number as the number of new application instances.
    5. Select **Apply Changes**.

5. Add a **Tanzu Command** step to your stage if you want to execute custom Tanzu commands in this step. 
    1. **Timeout** - Set how long you want the Harness delegate to wait for the TAS cloud to respond to API requests before timeout.
    2. **Script** - Select or enter a script you want to execute in this step.
        1. **File Store** - Select this option to choose a script from **Project**, **Organization**, or **Account**.
        2. **Inline** - Select this option to enter a script inline.
    3. Select **Apply Changes**.
   

> 6. Add a **App Rollback** step to your stage if you want to rollback to an older version of the application in case of deployment failure.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
6. Add an **App Rollback** step to your stage if you want to roll back to an older version of the application in case of deployment failure.
```
